Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you. Thank you very much
for coming and participating. Thank you, everyone. Welcome, everyone. Thank you. Thank you for
participating. Thank you. Thank you. We do about a few minutes of silent meditation and
then we start with from open prayer.
Thank you.
We start with open prayers and with seven-line prayers.
And in this Palm Beach Dharma Center, the page is heaven. It started from this yellow
bubble. Start with the seven-line prayer.
And then we start with the seven-line prayer. And then we start with the seven-line prayer.
And then we start with the seven-line prayer.
And it is all not just created by someone, but it is displayed in the creation of one's own
activity
that's reflecting back to us as like a dream.
No one is creating a dream to us.
We are all dreaming.
It's our dream.
We created.
We dreaming.
We experiencing.
We are again analyzing.
We're kind of sorting out all that.
So it's the same thing.
That's what the gracious teacher said.
See that.
So today, again, we follow the teaching of the gracious teacher.
And therefore, always in the teaching emphasize how to correct or reactivate in the motivations.
Motivation is our mind, your mind.
Because Dharma is practicing and Dharma is all best upon the mind, not outside anything.
It's our mind, your mind, my mind.
So if we like to make this Dharma practice as nice and beautiful and beneficial to me
and to you as well as other beings, then let's begin.
We start with our mind.
Mind is the starting point of our journey of whatever we like to take.
Journey where we like to go through the beautiful, peaceful, smooth,
and rewarding journey we like to take.
We don't care.
Maybe we don't really like or maybe you don't care too much.
Whatever the situation, I don't want to do anything.
That one, let's go with this mind.
Let's do what mind decided.
If we do that, then what mind will decide?
That is what we're going to talk to them, to a little bit about mind.
Our nature of the mind, our nature and everyone's nature is so beautiful.
So nice and beautiful, pristine, clear and rich and really beautiful according to the
teaching of the great teacher Bodhaka Kamanipa.
But its nature of the mind is neutral, openness, like sky.
There's no different restrictions and this and that.
Whatever reflecting from the mind, then we follow with that.
Most of the time, we human beings or we live sentient beings
following the way the reflection of the mind started with our own habit of patterns.
Habit of patterns, then we follow.
And that way, then what?
When we follow it that way, it will be distracted ourselves more externally, all externally.
What that means externally?
We're more distracted by the five sensorial objects.
Sensorial five objects, what are those?
The object of "I", our "I" is poems.
We're more attracted with the object of the "I", like object of the song.
We're more attracted or we kind of follow with the song.
Then object of the nose is smell and object of the tongue consciousness is taste.
And the body is touch.
So those are known as five sensual objects.
Those are, we are operating.
Then the mind senses is called the sixth sense in Buddhism.
First five are the external operating.
Mind sense is operating inwardly whatever the experience we got from the five senses.
The mind is decided.
The five senses are only on the present.
They don't have capability to judge of the past.
They don't have capability to judge the future.
And only the present.
The mind, the sixth consciousness, that has the capability of perceiving the past, perceiving
the future and as well as the present.
So we are completely distracted externally, now all the time, mostly.
Maybe I will say 80%, 90% we are distracted or attracted externally.
Among that, when we are extracted, what we like most of the time, we are completely collect
the word we like to please.
The pleasing poems, pleasing song, pleasing smell, pleasing taste, pleasing touch.
That's what really we like all the time.
And we are completely against it with the opposite of that, unpleasing.
Then we met big divisions between pleasing and not pleasing.
Who met that?
Not by the eyes, not by the ears, not by the nose and the tongues and the body consciousness.
It's by mind, mind beside it.
And mind did, and that's what we follow.
So we are all externally, really kind of, attracted externally.
And when we look to that, that, how much time we spend it to pursue of the pleasing things
or trying to also disregard the not pleasing things.
That is in Buddhism called hope and fears.
We continually follow and challenge by the hope and fears.
So we are following this, what we like to please or get, trying to get that and get
just really the every time we spend whatever, time we born, take the birth, time we lived
this world, we just really following that most of the time.
And then because up and down, all that.
So all spending time externally, most of the time.
That is also so easy for us because our habit patterns.
We don't have to make pause.
We don't have to make joyful effort for that.
It's naturally flowing.
We don't have any effort.
So up and down as we follow it, just like to do.
But then really thinking of that activity, what we do, it's not just really like, only
duration of where we're living here on this planet.
Maybe we live 80 years, 60 years, 80 years, maybe that, the longest maybe 90 years or
95 or 100 that is.
So all that activity what we did, externally following and trying to kind of make the comfortable
that please our mind if I use the symbol word or other word we call ego clinging.
So important, self-centered mind trying to please that we've been working for that.
Well we're working that even 100% or 80%, 90%, we're spending time for that.
We're not always fulfilling that goal.
Not everything so smooth.
Not everything so comfortable.
Not everything is coming according to our desires.
That happened.
And then it's all, so many things go up and down and all that.
But that is not only the life.
That is not only the mind according to Buddhism.
There's a more deeper meaning of the mind, deeper nature of the mind but we don't really
pay attention.
We always look, as I said, you think, I'm not just saying that, you think how much do
I spend the time?
What we're discussing now in my life until now, spend the time.
And we don't think any kind of other things but other side of the mind is called then
practicing.
Practicing Dharma.
The practicing Dharma is not something strange things we are trying to apply to our mind.
Practicing Dharma means bring out the natural beauty of our richness of the mind.
Our kindness, our compassion, our joy, our appreciation, our happiness, peace, respect
and stay calm and peaceful.
And we're to the present state of the nature of the mind.
But how much we do that?
We really think ourself.
This is not what I said, it is not alien, not strange, not dogma, not something that
I'm talking different things.
That is what in the Buddha's teaching, the gracious teacher, Buddha teaching, touching
to your own treasures, you're revealing that treasure.
This treasure never, every level of this treasure never going to leave us when we depart from
this world.
This treasure will stay with us according Buddhism throughout the lifetimes.
But treasure what we, what we accumulated with all so many hardships, so many emotions,
so many conceptions and challenges that only stays where we are here.
And that also, if that happened is great, also there is so many things happen.
What great Master Chantai Deva said, "The world is always challenges, always positive
in the hard shape of the true gathering of the external world, second, always challenge
of the true maintaining of what you gathered, third is always trying to increase that, and
the fourth is to protect that.
Again, if there's some others are going to take away."
So this is support different challenges beside of course the emotions and all the thoughts.
And then every stays until we live on this earth.
That's considered any good, but not many times.
Look to that reed, so many people, so rich, so powerful, but yes something happened and
it completely changed.
That happened so many times, it's nothing unusual.
But the treasure what we developed according with our own natural mind, with our mind,
such as I said, calmness, peaceful, joy, appreciation, and contentment, relax, with that world
never
going to leave us.
It will stay, but also it will explore more.
When you have more joy, it will bring more joy.
Not just that joy you got what you started, it's more.
And when you started with the loving kindness, the love that you started is not just stay,
it multiplies, it increases and compensations, and appreciation, understanding, wisdom, thoughtful,
common sense, sensible, and practical, all those well calm and beautiful, really it all
calm, so beautiful, perfectly.
So therefore, why we need to practice this?
Because we carry the pulse of externally and internally carry it with that, then it's not
coming easily, therefore we need practice, even it's our own treasure, because we ignored,
we ignored why due to the ego clinging.
Ego can be thinking, I'm doing the best with ego, and then we can't completely carry by
with that.
Ego brought more ego, and self-important brought more self-important, and self-centered mind
brought more self-centered mind, and more and more then become strong and strong, regiment,
regiment, and tense, and dark, and the eyes, and the cold, and then uncomfortable.
No matter whatever you do to the ego, never say the ego is, we say, enough.
That is really the true story, that you can ask.
So therefore, this really like this, so therefore, since we carry the pulse externally, therefore,
even our own nature, the treasure, beautiful nature never left us, but we need practice.
What is best, practice needs courage, commitment, loyalty, like this is your friend.
You're not practicing and doing those joy and appreciation, trying to please someone,
trying to favor the others.
When we do practice joy and appreciation, and loving kindness, compassion, all simple
all Mahayana Buddhism, both each other, which is what helps you, fundamentally, help to
our self, your self.
You become more stronger, more calmer, or we become more calmer, more peaceful, more
loving, more courage and commitment.
We become really strong, and we become the Bodhisattvas, gracious teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni,
named the practitioner of the who carried the wisdom and the compassion combined together,
one who practiced that.
That individual is named Bodhisattvas.
One practices love and compassion, and the wisdom together, three together or two together.
What that means, three together is loving kindness, compassion, and wisdom.
And two together, compassion and love, wisdom.
Two together, one who combined together, as a united together, practicing that, that practitioner
is called Bodhisattvas in Sanskrit world.
In Sanskrit, it is called Sanchabchamba, and it is translated English, courageous one for
the enlightenment, courageous one for the enlightenment, not timidness for the enlightenment,
courageous
for the enlightenment.
To get enlightenment, to discover our treasure of our own nature of the mind, we need courage.
We need commitment.
We're not sensitive.
We're not going to expect, or somebody says, "How nice, so nice, you're practicing, you're
practicing so good.
I'm so happy you're doing good.
You've been so good for..."
That if we're waiting for that world, our ego is still dominating.
Ego is manipulative.
We become so sensitive.
And if we're dead, if we're dead, we're torn.
And then, we become what's called demon is controlling you.
Not the demon is something outside with the big eye, and it's strange looking, all that.
No, not that demon.
But this ego demon is really controlling now, even your practice, but turn to your nice,
trying to be nice with that.
And then you've not become the courageous, also, enlightenment.
You become timidly sensitive, and kind of always waiting something, something.
Good things that please the ego, please yourself.
So therefore, I mean, this is what's really true, and then quite a few Sangha members
mentioned that I should show something, because this is challenging time, challenging time,
and should show.
So that's what I'm talking about, is really, I mean, that's what the really teaching said
then.
And then for that, also, I thought really, Paul with the great Master Luonginbazi teaching,
and this is, many of you already have this book in English.
It was translated, "World's My Perfect Teacher."
How many also is translated, some other terminology, kumze, lamma, shalom, Tibetan.
So you have that, but I'm going to read from there one verse, and then I just go over each
of those with the stories.
Also, I'm going to tell the stories of these different things, different things, so stories.
So now, first of all, we are practitioners, and we are practitioners, and we are in samsara,
we are where we are, we are not in the pure land, we are not in the sukha vadi, the amit
abhintamat, pure land, we are in samsara, really, samsara.
But this samsara, where we call the human realms, according to the great teacher, Buddha
Shakyamuni, this human realm is the best realm for the practitioners, if you like to really
have gained realization, this is the best.
Why?
Because three lower realms are not good, comfortable or suitable for the practice, because they
have so many challenges, so many sufferings.
Maybe you heard the name three sufferings, the big, major sufferings in Buddhism, highlight
and pointing out that suffering, upper sufferings, and then there's called changeable sufferings,
then there's third is known as pervasive sufferings, or low laying sufferings.
So suffering, suffering, changeable suffering, low laying sufferings.
And I will tell you, the three lower realms are suffering of sufferings, they have so
many sufferings, one after another according to Shakyamuni.
And what are those three lower realms?
The hill realms, I'm talking as R-E-A-L-M, I think, realms, hill realms, so many sufferings,
and then hungry ghost realm, so many difficulties, little softer than the hill realm, but so
many sufferings, constantly, not just once in a while.
And then, animal realm, there's so many troubles, also animal realm is a little lighter to compare
with the suffering of the hill realm and the hungry ghost realm, a little better, but there's
so many troubles.
So therefore, called three lower realms, L-O-W-E-R, I think, lower realms.
Why this called the lower realms?
Because the karma, those people who born on those realms, they met heavy karma with negative
emotions.
And that's why they're going through all, to cleansing, in one way they're experiencing,
but the other way, to cleansing their karmas, so called three lower realms.
And then, there's three upper realms, that means they did good karmas in the past, therefore,
their upper realms, they have less troubles or suffering.
And those three are, the first one is human realms.
Human realm, what suffering we have, changeable suffering, not all time sufferings, but then
occasionally comes, big sufferings, change, but basically we are being quite good, not
all time suffering as three lower realms.
And then there is three, two upper realms, or another two, and those are known as, in
Buddhism, Asura realms and God's realms.
Because these two God realms, Asura and God's realms, they don't have the suffering of suffering,
also changeable sufferings, they don't have.
But what suffering they have is low lay, undercurrent suffering, they didn't give up the suffering,
they didn't, they have suffering is ready to show up.
It's not on the surface.
So God's realms, those are called six realms.
Among that six realms, to do, to discover our inner treasures, three lower realms are so
challenged and kind of crushed by, by their own karmas, all sufferings, they really don't
have any time to, to touch to their own treasures, nature of the mind.
So then that three lower realms is not good, good suitable places for the practices.
Two upper realms, God's realms, Asura and God's realms, also not good, because they don't have,
they are so kind of like, beautiful, everything is so beautiful, since they don't have that
suffering, they can't suffer as active sufferings, so they are really so pleasant, beautiful,
nice and happy, they are completely distracted by the pleasures and happiness and enjoyment,
they don't have a time to do practices.
We human realms, and the gracious teacher, the best realm, that we have a good time,
and also we have challenge times, that is a perfect suitable practice in the Dharma.
When you have the more challenging difficulty, and you also know the peace and happiness,
then those who individually have more courage and commitment, confidence, then they really
can explore the ultimate joy in peace, happiness, for themselves, as well as benefit for others.
So all that this human realm is the best, but yet in human realm also of course has troubles.
Have a good practice, have a courage for the enlightenment, those old troubles are transformed
for the better purposes.
Most of the time those enlightened beings, we call the great masters, enlightened beings,
they all went through the different experience of what challenges of the world or the samsara,
this world, and then because of that, they really turned that situation to discover their
inner treasures, inner natures.
So that is about really that, and for that reason I'm going to talk this Lunking Bajji
teaching here, here is what he said, so the good practice and what it does, through the
dispute and harsh conditions, I met the Dharma and I discovered the path of the liberation,
so Lunking Bajji says, thank for that harsh and challenging situations, thank for, I'm
so grateful for that challenges, that difficulties, so I'm so happy with that.
And then next one he said that all the different sufferings went through, got all the different
sufferings and because of that, I met the Dharma and now I've achieved the ultimate
unchangeable peaceful status, so thankful, thankful for that suffering, sufferings.
And then through the obstacles and the militias, militias by the non-human beings, beings,
I met the Dharma and now I've become the fearless status, so thankful for those non-reserve
beings, militias by the non-reserve beings.
And next one is that all the different human beings hated me and take advantage of me,
me and because of that, I met Dharma and now I'm completely got the perfect, happy and
permanent, peaceful, so thankful all those harsh conditions, difficulties from those
human beings.
And then next one, bad circumstances, all bad circumstances, so many bad circumstances,
I met the Dharma, because of that, I met the Dharma and now I've achieved the ultimate
unchangeable status, also thankful all those bad conditions, bad circumstances.
And then next one, through the encouragement of others, others, I met the Dharma and now
I discovered the heart essence of the meaning of the realization, so I'm so thankful to
those who encouraged me and now I dedicated all my merits to all those beings, beings,
beings, and now because of you all, I achieved this realization.
So this is, I'm just translating roughly, growth level, it is in the world, if you like
to look, it's the world's perfect teaching in the toward the kind of toward the end of
refugee teachings, refugee teachings.
Now I go over each of those little bit stories.
The first one is so many kind of like prosecutions and harsh conditions, because of that, I met
the Dharma, Dharma and I achieved, I achieved the path of liberation.
And now, of course, generally you all know, you know this, it's not something different
than mysteries, but as I tell the story, it's truly happened stories that, this is again
in the Buddha's time, this first one, in the Kya Rasta, that is the very famous civilized
city that time in India, really very famous Kya Rasta.
And also, the gracious teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, stayed in that area over 20 years, it's called
the Jeddah of Grob, and he stayed there over 23 years.
And in that place, and there is one family, and he's a man and a woman, a woman, and born
as like Brahma family, clients, Brahma family clients, but yet it's very poor, really not
rich, poor.
They had the seven daughters, not the son, no sons, seven daughters, and all the seven
daughters were able to marry, they married.
So now, the two couples, and his name was Brahma Chintelo, Chintelo, and the teaching
is the Chintelo, they both stay, that is, his wife, and they both stay.
Wife is always very harsh, harsh to her husband, her husband, and always kind of criticizing,
and all the time, really kind of arguing all the time.
So she feels so uncomfortable always.
Now the seven daughters with their husband is coming, visiting for their kind of something
like an anniversary, whatever, coming to the parents' house.
These seven daughters and also these seven husbands are not really nice to the father,
and he always kind of like criticized and tormented by himself.
Now around that time, he had to have to blow his field, but he don't have ox.
So he asked his friend and he borrowed the ox, so he borrowed the ox to blow in the palm.
He started blowing his palm, well, he's blowing the palm during that time, then, I'm sure
it's taking a few days, not just one, even they're poor, maybe they're taking a few days,
he lost the ox.
Now he looked everywhere, he couldn't find the ox that he borrowed from the friend, friend,
so he really feels so sad, said, now what I do, do, do, and I will tell to my wife,
she will argue me, and I tell this, they know these seven daughters and their husband knows,
they will argue with me, and now I lost the ox, and what to do, I don't have a place to
go back then, far distance.
He saw Buddha is meditating, meditating that.
He looked to him, and then this lady looks like he's meditating, and he's sitting under
the trees.
He comes closely, and he looks to the Buddha, Buddha looks so peaceful, calm, and this old
man that Brahma, Saint Dalo, looked to the Buddha, can't let it distance, not closely,
looking, wow, how beautiful he is himself, he looks like he doesn't have any worries,
he doesn't have any worries of losing the ox, he doesn't have the worries of the wife
is going to criticize and arguing, he doesn't have any worries of the three, seven daughters
and the seven husbands going to criticize, really he looks so peaceful, calm.
So he thought that he's looking to the Buddha, and the Buddha knew, immediately read his
mind, and when he came to close, Buddha said, exactly true, I don't have palm land, and
therefore I never borrowed, I don't have to borrow the ox, and I don't have wife, and
they're not going to caress, I don't have seven daughters and a husband, and I'm peaceful,
and I'm happy and peaceful, wow, he said, I really look like happy and peaceful, I wish
I have, I should have that.
He said, you want, polo, if you want me like, if you want to have peace like you, polo,
then do that, what, I, this Brahma, the old farmer said, I sure I can do that, of course
you can do, he said, so then I really like to do, but I don't feel any comfort troubles
and happy, the joy in the home is like my, like cemeteries, and my wife is just really
constantly our way, and seven, they always caress me, so I'm ready if you will accept
me.
Buddha said, yes, then you should join, so he really joined, and Buddha gave the teaching,
he started practicing, he got the realizations, so that's the story of the old harsh difficulties
and prescriptions through that, then there's a Tamzi, Chintello, got the realizations,
so that's my post stories, stories.
And the second story is the old difficulties, challenges, troubles of the sufferings, and
got the realizations, realizations, unshakeable realizations forever, and I'm thankful for
the suffering.
This is really again true story in the Buddha's teaching, there is famous Arhata, female Arhata
known as Kautama Kimmung, Kautama Kimmung, she is a very famous nun, or the monk nun,
nun, very famous, she got achieved Arhata ho, but way that happened is not the simple,
she went so much suffering, really so many sufferings, this now you can read these things,
I think maybe so many, this 84,000 teachings, it's just really unbelievable how much she
got sufferings.
And then the story begins with these two merchants, wealthy merchant from Varanasi, wealthy
merchant
from I think these days in Pakistan, they met, well they are doing businesses, they really
become very good friends.
So when the merchant from Donjo comes to the Varanasi area, this merchant stays in this
Varanasi merchant, and they become very good friends.
And this merchant from the Varanasi area, and when they travel and go to the Donjo,
and he goes to the Donjo merchant's house and stays, so they become really best friends.
And they each other told how we should make, as we are best friends, I like to maintain
this friendship, relationship with us, even after we go home.
And one man that, I think Varanasi, the merchant said, said that in the end of that time, his
wife is pregnant, got pregnant, he got pregnant, he said, "Hi, I have the idea how we keep
the relationship, friendship, connection, family connection, and now my wife is pregnant,
is my wife this pregnant is when she gave the birth, if that is boy, boy, and then your
wife when you pregnant, if they got the girl, then we married that, or other way, whatever
that.
So we really arranged marriage, and other merchant, that idea is really good idea we
will do.
So then really they decided that we do that.
So Varanasi merchant gave the birth of son, son, moment this Donjo area, merchant, heard
his wife give the birth of the child, he bought lot of gifts.
This will be the future, my whatever this is, the boy's son's wife, or the husband,
and so I'm going to take the gift, so he really bought lot of gift today, in a way, to support
the newly born boys, the boy and give that.
And then his, Donjo's also wife now got the same way, pregnant and give the child, boy,
child, and the beautiful lady, beautiful young woman, but let it skinny, let it skinny, but
beautiful, really baby, beautiful.
And so named Kimmum, Kimmum is in Tibet skinny or slim, slim, so baby slim, again this Varanasi
one bought so much gift.
So now they grown up around in the tennis, according to the teaching, in the tennis,
they made big arrangement and they married, they married, and now they're growing beautifully
and this boy, now this baby, this Kimmum giving the birth of the babies, and traditionally
they go to the parent's house, give the birth, so when they give the birth, birth, and then
come back to the husband's house, and they stay there, they really kind of enjoy, have
a really good time, all that.
And then she again start giving another birth, and then they went, try to go to the parent's
house, mother's, like her parent's place, and she give the birth, and now there's really
coming nice, nice and everything, well they're coming back on the road, road is big suddenly
really kind of weather is not so good, neither is not good, they have to cross the river,
and they may try to make the river and so much rain and husband.
Now she have the one young baby, and the other is like maybe one year or two years or whatever,
really old, and then her husband, poor but then coming back to the husband's home, house,
on the road they made more, more than what's called, more weather, and more start raining.
So the husband, they thought they're going to make little bit hot to protect the rain,
and he went to collect some wood and leaves, and during that moment he was bite by the
poison snacks, big poison snacks, and he died, he died right there, he died right there.
And then he's waiting, the husband, but never came back, come back, and calling him, now
he has new baby, so he can let the child and all that, he couldn't leave.
And next morning, she searched, and not apart from, he was, he died, first he thought he's
laying down, and she hold, and she cried, and cried, so long, long.
Now he died, so there's nothing can do.
Now still he decided to go back to the husband's house, house, now the water is really big,
water is very big, and now what happened, and so he can carry two babies, same time,
to cross the river, and he carry the first, he told, I'm going to carry first new born
baby, and then leave, oh no, first I thought I'm going to take my old one, which is one
or two years old, and then leave other side of the river, and come back and take this,
this one, and well he's carrying that baby, baby, baby, and cross the river, and the middle
of the river when he arrived, and folks came, folks came to other side, and folks are trying
to pick up her, her new born babies, and he trying to return back to that, and throw the
camera like she must be nervous, and she dropped the young baby, a young boy, a baby that maybe
one year old, dropped on the river, and she just completely become so sad, really sad,
sad what to do now, and then she trying to come back then, and the folks grabbed and
carried baby, so now she lost both babies, and her husband is in that riverbank, riverbank,
and still she came back to the family, and now she is really so sad, lost and old, and
now I'm not going to talk more things, as he said, you can read there, but she got one
after another, so much challenges, so much troubles, one after another, not just the
end of the day, continually had troubles, and then, and then she came through the camera
like through her karma, karma, she came close to Sharastha, and now she lost complete her
mind, troubles, and even she dropped her clothes, she is naked, she lost completely, and sad,
and also no food, no drink, and just really sad, and suffering, all that, and somehow
through her karma, and the blessings of Abhli, by the blessings of the Buddha, great teacher
Buddha, she came close to the jeddah of grubs, grubs, and far away jeddah grubs, she saw
the Buddha is sitting right in the middle of the big assembly, and giving the teaching,
at that moment she gained karma like conscious back, feel karma, she just really karma breathing,
able to breathe, but yet she's so shy, because she don't have clothes, karma like sitting
with like, like this treat, legs are like that, and looking to the Buddha without the
blanket, it's so calm, and the greatest teacher is all knowing, called in Buddhism, omniscient,
he sees everything clearly, but pick, particularly, but who is ready to need help, that moment
Buddha told Anand, take this cloth, Buddha give his robes, take this cloth, give to that
lady Kemu, Kemu, and ask to come here, and not give the teaching to him, and so Ananda
exactly listened to the Buddha, and went, give the teaching, give the cloth, and ask
to come, and she just thought wow, kind of feel, and really again that gained kind of
more energy, and more inspired, and she put the robes around her, and then came to Buddha,
and the Buddha gave the teachings, immediately, because Buddha know, Buddha is not just giving
the teaching with presumptions, Buddha know about their capabilities, and their readiness,
their mind, and they're exactly what needed to, and Buddha give exactly that teaching,
and that right in the sitting moment, she got the big realization, oh great teacher,
I got, I got, you give me the birth, you give me the life, you know, bought me from the
hell realm to heaven, so thankful, now I will follow as your disciples, please hold me,
Buddha said, yes, yes, and our daughter, exactly it is, I will be your teacher, you follow
my teachings, so then she practiced and meditated, soon she become arapaho, that's called Pama
Drakumba Kimon, so that is really the story of that this, when you have the courage and
the commitment, and the perseverance, even challenge difficulty, she got the realization,
arapaho, every, did that suffering, those things didn't happen, maybe he won't get realization,
so really this is what, what the teaching said this, so thankful for all those sufferings,
and then she become, started teaching, teaching to the old nuns, or the non-gatherings, assembling
nuns, and occasionally she told her stories that what she went through to counter, like
the practice of Dharma dead, and many of those nuns, particularly there's called 12 naughty
nuns, they started really like, kind of like, chasing him many times, kind of picking up
the head, had those challenges, the difficult things, what happened, and so this also happened,
happened that one, so that is the second story, and the third my story is, said here, by the
challenges of the non-wizard beings, or Hamid, the militias of non-wizard beings, and that
I'm telling, really tell the story of the Gelum Uparmam, but you all know, I think many
of you know, so I won't tell, but Gelum Uparmam was born, maybe around the 10th century, 11th
century, around that time, and according to the teaching, she was very very wealthy, family
born, or even a king, and then she is so beautiful, so so talented, and just, but yet she don't
like to really get married, and all that, and she joined with the, with the, with the
monasteries, and the nunneries, and she'd been practicing, but then, well, he's practicing,
she got the leprosy, leprosy, and the leprosy is a little bit, in Buddhism, kind of considering,
is a, received that relatively Nagas, Nagas, she, she lost all the limbs and all that, and
then she had kind of isolated herself, and because that time there's no cures, or I mean,
that is something really, very kind of like, big diseases, so that, but then she, she,
because of that, she received the teaching, particular practice, and she is teaching,
and she diligently practicing the meditation, and the awalok, and because of that, through
the blessings of awalok, she become as, then, that completely those, re-heal, the old, what,
those, her lost limbs, and all those things, by the leprosy, all come back, and regain
back those bones, and she saw the genocide, exactly, and fast, fast, and she received the
blessings from the genocide, and the moment, she performed for the genocide, there is a
very beautiful song, that she made, it's called, "Popto," in it, "Popto," or "Pressed
by the Pores," in each time, and, end, end of that, then, "Pressed in the Pore, in the
Pore, Om, Om Nijigdin, Om Olah, Psalm, Salom, Nijigdin, Amad, Palsam, Tho, Ba, Po," that's,
when you do that practice, really, it's a wonderful practice, powerful practice, healing practices,
and meritori practices, the practice for the world peace, and peace, so that is, like,
I mean, kiri is a practice, and then, all the, the, muscle dhamma, and through the heart,
and the challenges, and obstacles, through the, the human beings, I met the dharma, and
thankful for all that, that story, I told you, tell you a story of the Malarepa, Malarepa
is, because, become the sage, one of the biggest, the Buddhist achievement, realization of beings,
in the Buddhist history, or in the 20 Buddhist history, really big, because he had so much
troubles, is, again, through his aunt, and uncles, and everyone take advantage of the
support, Malarepa's young boy, and his mother, and the sisters, they take completely, even
though the bone as a wealthy family, or father, was a very quite businessman, and wealthy,
and everything, but then, I mean, you know, I won't tell, and because of that, in the
Malarepa, gain the realization, become the Malarepa, how wonderful, how beautiful that,
so that is about the Malarepa.
The next one is, through all different circumstances, bad condition, or bad circumstance, I met
the dharma, and that is, so thankful for all those bad circumstances, and that is, also
I told, I mean, there is many other things too, but I told you, tell stories of the,
of the Buddha Shakyamun himself, Buddha Shakyamun himself, as of course, is like, that's going
to become the Buddha in benefit for all beings, but in the according, on the surface, at a
relative level, Buddha was enjoying, and in the palace, with the Queen, all the luxuries,
every luxury things, that's how available, here, Buddha has the best, young princess,
it's called the Siddhartha, Prince Siddhartha, enjoying everything, really all, and the father
liked that very much, he liked to stay, because some prediction, or some omen readers, or
the palm readers, astrologers said, when they were born, he could leave the kingdom, the
palace, and then roam in the different places, and become the great teacher, he said, father
didn't like that, father liked to stay in the, in the palace, and become the ruler there,
so Buddha is completely surrounded by all that.
Around the age of 27, or around that time, didn't really know exactly, but around that
time, Buddha told his best friend, and the best assistant too, and he's like attendant,
called Dumba.
Dumba, I like to go out of the city, out of the palace, prepare the chariot, chariot,
and Dumba was his friend too, best friend too, and the attendant, and they also grew
almost the same, same age, same age, and Buddha, Dumba said, yes sir, yes sir, so he organized
the arrangement, and went out of the gate in the city, city.
When he went out of the city, on the road, Buddha saw, first time, the old man, old man,
and he can stand up straight, straight, he's completely bended, and walking with walking
sticks, and white hairs, and he even can't move easily, and also not looking, compilations
not looking, and that's the first time Buddha saw, Buddha said to Dumba, what is this?
He said, sir, this is called getting old, getting old, and this is now old man.
What this old man is just only for him, or for everyone, say everyone, one day you will
be like this too, he answered, and the Buddha thought this is not really kind of pleasing
outside, out seeing, and turned back the charades, he went back, and the Buddha felt, wow, this
world has this old troubles, even though I'm surrounded with all that, I mean, I won't
go about that thing, and the next day he asked Buddha, asked to do again the same, this time
when the southern gate went out, and the southern gate, when he went out, there is again, one
man is laying on the kind of floor, and many people are looking, and helping, supporting,
looks like, and the Buddha asked what it is, and this Dumba said, this is the known called
sicknesses, now this is getting sick, sicknesses, and he's sick, and he could survive, he could
be die, die, but this is sickness, and the Buddha again said, this is the only him or
others, everyone had the same thing, you were too, we all did that, and the Buddha turned
back, one, and then that next day when the Buddha was again, and the Buddha saw the dead
bodies, and kidding by the dead gory, by the relatives in India they do, and many loved
ones are going with that, and many are crying, and making so many different kind of miracles,
not sound, and he just said, again, Buddha saw that, so then he just said, Buddha, sorry,
I'm, that's it, I mean, same answer, same question, and next day, Buddha went to the
north gate, and north gate Buddha saw beautiful, the kind of very beautiful robes, yellow robes,
and looks like so happy, and so peaceful, and peaceful, and full of really kind of like,
no, no, like looks like warriors, Buddha asked what it is, this is called monks who left the
world, and now they're pursuing the peace and happiness, wow, that is, looks so beautiful,
beautiful, and then Buddha returned back, and then, then because of those old situations,
Buddha left the palace at 29, at 18, enlightenment at 35, so that is really story of the old
different conditions are happening this day, and next one is by the encouragement, I met
Dharma, and I'll thank for all those who met encouragement, that is, there's so many people,
so many are really encouraged by them, that in ancient time, or in the debate, those old,
most 25 disciples, and Gharib and Masambhava, encouraged by the King to some day, and the
different friends, to become the practice, and meditate, and study Sanskrit, and all that,
and they started meditating, such as, and get enlightenment, and become the Buddha.
So this is what the samsara has offered, and even though it is, so many things happening,
but we have the courage, and the commitment, and confidence, and stay with the course,
read that, and then really we got the realizations, understanding, so the troubles and difficulties
are not always bad, and there's so many stories, stories, really there's so many troubles,
the difficulty challenges come, and then you got something more than what you never expected,
you got the realization, understanding, the scholars, all that, so those are my stories
of the teaching, and now it's 11 30, and you have some questions, I'm happy to discuss
a little bit, and then otherwise we do little practice of the, of the, the kundasanku prayer,
right, we're doing that, you know, that, yeah.
>> You just mentioned that you can stay with the course, you mean the course of the action?
>> Of course, I mean the course of the practicing, practicing, again, as I said, at the beginning
time, I divided into two, that externally we focus more, that benefited to our, this lifetime,
we're more carried with that, but if we do something more deeper, deeper meaning, and
that will benefit, that means practicing dharma, practicing this, such as loving kindness,
compassion, joy, and application, and they really do kind of more virtues of activity
that benefit to you, to the others, that will bring more joy, and peace, happiness, more
reward in this life, but that what we developed is not going to leave behind, we really go
with that, and that's what the great master Nagarjuna said, that there's two, three individuals,
and one in, oh yeah, three individuals, and one individual is from the dark, going, following
from the dark to the dark, and the darkness, and then there is another individual is from
the light to light, to lightness, and there's some individual from the dark to light, from
light to the dark, one after, and we, it triggers our inner values, and our goodness of the
joy, and peace, happiness, and body, that that individual truly will follow from light
to light, to light, light, so I will say that is what I mean, okay.
Thank you, anything? Yes, thanks. Kimpo, I was wondering, is there a mantra that is the
cause for enlightenment, that we could, as we chanted it, we could think of the cause
of enlightenment. The old mantra is really good for enlightenment. Old mantra, particularly,
I think the simple one, is Ommani Bhemehong, really joined Ommani Bhemehong, who realized
all feelings, bodhijata, and joined also the mantra, even though it's not called the mantra,
joined the poor, immeasurable praise. May all living beings have the happiness and the cause
of happiness. May all they breathe from the suffering, the cause of suffering. May they
all have this abundance of joy, never separated from that abundance. May they all have the
great equanimity, realizations, really sincerely wishing those that say that, and joining that
maybe seven times, and then join the mantra of Ommani Bhemehong, excellent, and join the
world, Bhejanguru mantra, the world premise of a mantra. All the days Lilian has asked
me, all the something, to talk that there's a prediction, for a fascist of that. In the
iron drug, there could have some big troubles or changes in the world that's going to happen,
and that could happen. And so that to prevent those, those that troubles, also in that prediction
mentioning, do a lot of very short activities, join the mantra of the Gurbama Sambhoi, join
the mantra of the, of the Avalok Dehshora, and join practice of the Vedic life. And particularly
do the Gurbama Sambhoi, Sambhoi mantra, Omma Ahong, Vedang Gurbama, Siddha or that. Also
I will say, joined seven, this, of course seven line prayer, but joined is poor, invigorable,
really joined. We see that, that is the bodhicata, that is a computer, that is heart essence
for all the Buddhas. And also then, with that meditate a little bit, more relaxed meditate,
and then also this patience. When we have the practitioners, we should be also more patient,
but more, sometimes like practicing, become more sensitive than before they start practices.
That shouldn't happen. They become more, really patient, more kind of like, more strong, more
courage, more courage in the practices. And also they should become, then join the mantra
of the Jainese, Omma Anapimyo, or Vedang Gurbama Siddha. So prevent those, those iron drug
is like, professors also, that as much as you can. Okay, thank you. Anything? Yeah, please.
Hello. Oh, thanks. Thank you. Yes, I, I was wondering if we're chanting something like the,
say, four immeasurables, or maybe four thoughts that turn to mind, that kind of thing. Is there
any important difference between just continuing to repeat it, or saying one line, and then
pausing to contemplate that? If we prefer one or the other, does that matter really?
What the great master, Jung Moo, Kuntal Rambajam, of course, many of you all know,
Kuntal Rambajam is one of the really famous great masters, and then as well as others too.
He mentioned that how you enter to the Dharma, passage of the Dharma
or practice is devotion, devotion and fed. Through that, you will enter to the Dharma
and the practices. So that means, you not just have that and enter, and then that's it.
But keep the devotion, keep the fed all the time to the heart, the mind, you are in the Dharma,
you have that. And then what he said, and second, not just only him or Jung Moo Kuntal Rambajam,
but the other master too, the anchor or foundation stone of the Dharma is for this thought of the
renowned sessions. And what are those forethought as those you know, forethought are, join the
appreciation of the life. This life is precious. This life is special. This life is more precious
than the size of this, like diamond, like this size. Really, this so precious.
Precious, life is precious. So, joy and epic, but not just that, have courage and commitment.
I'm going to use this life for the better purposes that benefit to me, to all the others.
Really had that. That is the first anchor of the anchor or the cornerstone of the Dharma. Second is
the impermanent.
Impermanent, there's two impermanents. Gross impermanent and subtle impermanent.
Gross impermanent, we see ourselves. Oh, that something now happened. This happened. All the
building is a collapsed. Cup is broken. All this something, those are in Buddhism, the gross
impermanent. We detect because our knowledge is so gross. We don't really detect the subtle.
But because the subtle impermanent is so subtle, we don't detect. I'm sure the machine,
scientific machine will detect. Everything is changing instantly. In that philosophical system,
there is no really actually present existence in a way. Past is not existing that you can detect it
.
The future is not can detect it. The moment you detect, that moment is changed. It is so past
running. More fast than the lightening. Lightening. So that is our life is like that.
But well, with that situation, something we can hold, something we can enjoy.
So ruffle acting impermanent is the second anchor or second cornerstone of foundation stones.
That or that. And the third one, cause and effect are inevitable.
Whatever is a cause and condition, result that will come. Result comes like that.
So that means, what in a teaching said, Vedic teacher Buddha said and as well as
Nagarjuna said, this is not just only three of them. Since Buddha said all the masters, it is true.
If the root is poison, the result, the fruit will be poison. If the root is medicine, healing,
the fruit will be medicines. So that means, our thoughts, our minds are peaceful,
love, action will be peaceful and love. And our thought is, mind is negative in an anger and a
jello, action will be negative and action of jellows and negatives. So therefore, whatever we do,
that is not just to have only last that moment. According to the teaching, it made the footprint.
It made imprint. So that is called karma, inevitable. And that is so thoughtful with all
action is a cornerstone anchor of the practices throughout ourselves. And the next one is the
samsara has trouble. Samsara has challenges. Not everything comes exactly what we want.
Even you have everything, even you have the power, it won't come exactly as it is.
That's the way things are. So accept that. And remembering that is that is the anchor of the
practice. This anchor of the practice is not just the only short time. Keep that. Every practice
starts with that, is called. Then really your anchoring down, your stabilizing, your practices
and not then force the obstacles that cannot destroy that. Many times, the practitioners
are like all that. The obstacles, those are called the demons. Demons are, as I said earlier,
is not just something that strange beings come. Demon is what? Our negative emotions, our own
emotions is demons. That is what? Ignorance, attachment, anger, jealousness. Those are
reflected on the five, five, what's it called? No, no, no, no, no. This is called the five
obscurations by great master Nagarjana said. The first obstacles, first obstacle of the
practitioners or anyone actually really. When our mind is so much edited and become wild and always
crowing something, pleasing things all the time. Time. Mind is not restless. It's mind is
completely
saturated by the demons. Negative. And with that, and then because when you're having that thought,
then it comes what Nagarjana said in the teaching, then always feel kind of feel bad. Oh, I shouldn
't
do that. I shouldn't. Oh, I'm sorry. I did that. Kind of feel the like little bit guilty or feel
the kind of like something that is not happening. Exactly. Because you have the expectation, like
to be everything, exactly where you like to be. And they're not, that is another obstacle.
And then kind of always violence is thought. I'm not saying always, but violence is thought.
And kind of like thought of that, like to convey all this person is not good. That person is not
good. Or they did this, that kind of recollecting of the old mistakes, the errors of the others,
not looking to our own self and looking. That is another obstacles of the practitioners.
And then dullness mind, sleepy, pokey, laziness, all that is obstacles of the practitioners.
And always criving, criving through the sensorial pleasure objects.
All the time to that. That is another obstacles of the practitioners.
And yeah, no, see. So those are the obstacles of the practitioners. Always watch for with that.
And then those are the four corners. And then you can recollect those as joined, those prayers,
really beautiful prayers that in the short Gondor has, such as what's called, and it's difficult
to get obtained in indoment lives. So difficult. It's true. Reflecting on those thoughts for a few
seconds, a few minutes, every you have time. Everything born is born to the, like is in
parliament and those are reflecting each of those things. Really wonderful thoughts. A few minutes,
every you have time. Then there's four in measurable. Again, each one, if you have time,
join those and reflect in reaching that to every living beings. And those are known as practicing
of the, what's called the wishing bodhicata. You're putting wishing bodhicata in action.
Suppose we develop the bodhicata in our heart and mind. Now you exercise that. And then that
is born in measurable. Those are when becomes stronger than the exchanging and others are more
important than ourselves. And all those practice can do this. So those are very wonderful and
excellent. Okay. Anyone? Okay. Thank you. Then we do the little bit of what's called this.
So I say that, I said, I'm sure you already saw, but for this prevent of the all the
difficult things, particularly this protection iron dog. Yeah. Things that if you have time
and time, if you can do, do a little bit of lateral merit as much as military activity,
you can do that benefit for the other beings, such as really jointing, practicing of the
best upon the bodhicata. Joining these four in measurable practices,
target with that, then seven line praise of the Gurbam Masambhava, Risari and Mantara
of the Gurbam Masambhava. And in it, pretty day can you say that individually practicing Gurbam
Masambhava over all joined in the Vaidyan Guru Mantara or gruelly joined in the Vaidyan Guru
Mantara. So you can do those gruelly practice the Vaidyakala. Vaidyan Guru Mantara is really
wonderful and excellent. I think it's four or five years. Four or five years, I think. Iron dog
years. Now, this year is what? Dagon, no? Dagon, dalabdarsa, swa, dalabdarsa, swa like that. You
draw, draw, draw,
maybe six years, roughly, I think. Six years, iron. So that is, yeah, really as much as you can.
And
then I think we have really a lot of pictures of Gurbam Masambhava, no? In a box. So a lot of box.
Big one came. No, many boxes came. Oh, really?
Then we have no boxes. No, no boxes came.
Oh, wow. Wow, but really, many devotees in Taiwan, they really public so many
Gurbam, which is images, and they sent us to Gurbam Masambhava and a lot of boxes in Gurbam
Masambhava. It has mantara, it has images, and if you do that, you know, kind of keep that and
put those in a different kind of nice areas. And then in teaching said it will help to balance
the element and the balance at the end also help balance of the human mentalities too.
Okay, thank you. Then you have the Kunda Zanggu Pray. Okay, then we do the Kunda Zanggu Pray. Thank
you very much everyone for participating and joining. And now we do the Kunda Zanggu Pray.
And this is a very powerful prayer, as you all know, and it is really join this and relax our
mind in that body, that status, and joining this as much. And
we joined in English, and we're going to join in this telephone.
Which is the page? Page 23 maybe, or 23, but telephone. First we joined the telephone and
then we go back to the page one. And today is a full moon. Full moon is a very special time
to do, visualize the Shira Zang and join this prayer thinking about which ending that and that
heard by the all the beings over six events. Thus it said from the 12th, it shows the
unimpeded realization of Buddha in a great profession. This is the ninth chapter,
the prayer that will lead sentient beings to be alive and sit without any choices.
Whoa! All appearance of phenomena and the possibility of meaning
have one source but truth right now. A miracle of knowing and unknowing.
This is the prayer of the Kuntazamma. May all beings have realized perfectly in life and
still. In the Pala, in the Ahmadada, the soul, so everything is uncompounded,
self-arising, infinite, inconceivable. By all the levels of samsara and the Rana,
knowing this sickness is Buddhahood. Unknowing is the wonder and the compassion. May all beings of
the three Rana, realize the nature of the inconceivable. So, for the more economical
proclaim, nature of the soul of the people, the soul is reliable by the sabbatim.
It is not named by the arrows that is diagonal, it is not obscured by the darkness of the mind.
Therefore, there is no sting to the mistaken production. Kudwad is a great expression in
your words, and the three worlds are free from the fear and the terror. Undehatred in the
five orders of the samsara pleasure, self-arising awareness is free from the desperate thought,
solid of home in the five orders. The radiating clarity of the awareness is unseasoned.
This single nature is five-fold wisdom. The action is five-fold wisdom with five primordial
goodness.
When this wisdom extends, Kudwudu uses the express of the power of the five worlds,
reports six yellow birds, and more ordinary awareness in their own. Amen, primordial Buddha.
By the power of the prayer, may all beings in the three realms of the samsara recognize
self-arising awareness in the expanding capacity of the great wisdom, may elimination are unseason
ed
in consistent local elements of the emanating of the other's potential.
When the awareness of the source is forgotten, the mind becomes a known in the doubt in the
words in your mind to cause it. Instantly, one thought, one breath, and then the other one.
This begins to find other, find their enemy, and so, clinging is between the abbot's door.
The sharding from the clumps of thoughts and the increasing comfort of the part of it.
There is no end to the activity of the five worlds, so the shoulders are good to be the
opposite. This is not the one, the other. I am the brother by the power of the prayer.
In all beings, Kudwudu, may we all think of our inner self-awareness.
In all beings, Kudwudu, may we all think of our inner self-awareness, may we all think of our inner
self-awareness.
In all beings, Kudwudu, may we all think of our inner self-awareness.
May we all think of our inner self-awareness.
Then we are going to join some mantras. Here are the names of the individuals.
Those who recede or want to praise, I believe most of them recede.
So we are doing some prayers and we just joined the mantras.
And the page, yeah, Mantra grew that.
Mantra started from, in this booklet page 78.
So you look through, and maybe the order is slightly different.
But we joined the mantra, and here is the very green booklet.
The booklet here.
Okay. Oh yeah, Danny. Okay. Okay.
So these are the individuals in the part of?
Danny Duan, Scott Starkley, Leila and Grivazio Kulenga.
Removing disease and obstacles and increasing well-being and fulfillment in life.
Artis McKay, Dorian, Karam Ibrahim, Fatima, Pamela Stansbury,
Andy Iroha and Ray, Vicky Anastasi, Wendy and Lois,
Maris Abelson, Joseph R. Ligon, Joseph F. Ligon, Walker Joseph Caldwell,
Ashley Michelle Caldwell, Hannah Amaloon, Charles Lang, Shane,
Stephen Hathaway and Gabe Abelson. Thank you.
Okay. Those old people asked to do prayer.
And then together with everyone, okay.
We do this prayer and the page, start with the Buddha.
The Buddha pray, but most of the time we join the mantra.
We're going to join the mantra, okay, that we want.
So page mantra, maybe we just do the Buddha prayer.
In the place, press this Buddha prayer, and then we join all mantras.
The Great Compassion One accepted this jubilant genuine roar and met 500 as prayers.
You are praised as white lorders, who in my head, your name will not return to Kamsa.
Most of the greatest teachers, I say it humbly to you.
Maha Maha Maha.
[Singing]